Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard,
where we set out to remember and
celebrate the lives of those who lived
to entertain us, by visiting their final
resting places. Today we're exploring
Hillside Memorial Park, where we'll find
such stars as Al Jolson, Dinah Shore,
Leonard Nimoy, and many more.
Join us, won't you?
Hillside Memorial Park is a Jewish cemetery located in
Culver City California, just a few miles
southwest of Hollywood. It was founded in
1941 and in 1957 was acquired by Temple
Israel of Hollywood and has serviced
Hollywood's Jewish community ever since. It features beautiful works of art from
Jewish tradition and culture.
Note that the cemetery is closed on
Saturday in observance of Shabbat.
Hillside is a medium-sized Cemetery
so we'll be covering it in two parts. For
this first part we'll be visiting the
main mausoleum and the surrounding areas.
We'll begin our tour at Hillside's most
iconic monument, visible right from the
405 freeway. This cascading waterfall and
75 foot marble pillar monument
memorializes as one of the world's most
legendary entertainers, Al Jolson.
He was a singer stage and film actor and
comedian dubbed in his day as the
world's greatest entertainer. He
captivated audiences with his
performances on Broadway stages, becoming
a rock star before the age of Rock, and
was the king of Broadway for decades. By
the late 20s Hollywood came calling and
in 1927 Jolson starred in Hollywood's
first feature-length talkie,
The Jazz Singer, ushering in the sound
era.
[music]
"Mammy...
My little Mammy."
Jolson often performed in blackface,
certainly inappropriate and
controversial by today's standards, but
before you decry him as a racist let us
understand the era and the context. As a
Jewish man, Jolson fought against
cultural discrimination in the early
20th century, particularly discrimination
against African-Americans. He used his
blackface persona to ridicule the
prevalent idea of 'white supremacy,' and in
an era when blacks were not allowed to
perform in most venues, Jolson helped
introduce black music like jazz and
blues to white audiences, breaking down
the barrier of white-only and black-only
entertainment... essentially bridging a
long-standing cultural gap in America.
He even helped promote and demand equal
treatment for black entertainers of the
era like playwright Garland Anderson, and
Cab Calloway. Jolson was a man who had
his flaws, like all of us,
but he was no racist. In fact this very
monument was designed by renowned
African-American architect, Paul R Williams.
Let's make our way up to the
mausoleum. On the lawn to the right, next
to the road, is actress Suzanne Pleshette.
She can be seen in films like Alfred
Hitchcock's, The Birds, but is perhaps
best remembered for her role as Emily
Hartley on The Bob Newhart Show, a role
that earned her two Emmy nominations.
Nearby on this lawn is Suzanne's husband,
comedic television actor Tom Poston.
He started his career in the 1950s,
appearing on variety shows like the
Steve Allen Show, a recurring role that
earned him an Emmy. His career spanned
the decades that followed, often starring
alongside friend and fellow comedian Bob Newhart.
He was nominated for three more
Emmys for his role on Newhart, and had
guest roles on popular comedies of the
20th century, including Home Improvement,
and Murphy Brown. He was also a frequent
panelist on To Tell the Truth.
Just before the entrance of the mausoleum, on the left,
is the tomb of producer Mark Goodson.
He is remembered for having
created and produced some of the
greatest and most popular game shows of
the 50s to the 80s, including Match Game,
To Tell the Truth, What's My Line?,
Family Feud, and The Price is Right.
His marker is inspired by his company logo.
Heading into the mausoleum then
immediately back out to the courtyard we
find the crypt of David Janssen low on
the left wall. He was an actor best
remembered for his portrayal of
Dr. Richard Kimble in the 60s TV series, The Fugitive. He had starring roles in many
other TV series of the era, including
Richard Diamond: Private Detective, and
Harry O.  In 1996 he was ranked number 36 on TV Guide's list of greatest TV stars.
He died of a heart attack at the age of
48.
Several spaces above Jansen is George Jessel.
Like many of his era, Jessel began
entertaining on stage in vaudeville.
In 1925 he originated the lead role in the
Broadway production of The Jazz Singer, a
role that quickly made him a leading man.
He was set to reprise the role on-screen
in 1927, but when negotiations fell
through the role went to Al Jolson.
He acted in over 30 film and television
productions in his career, and became a
prominent producer of musicals in the
40s and 50s.
He was known as the Toastmaster General
for his frequent role as master of
ceremonies at political and
entertainment events.
From the courtyard we head to the corridor to the south.
On the far left is Michael Landon.  He was
one of the great television actors, known
for playing wholesome, down-to-earth
characters like Charles Ingalls on
Little House on the Prairie.
[music]
He also played Little Joe Cartwright on
Bonanza, and Jonathan Smith on Highway to Heaven.
He appeared on the cover of TV
Guide more than any other actor,
except Lucille Ball.
Across from Landon, back in
the mausoleum, on the left, is Eddie Cantor,
another of the all-around great
entertainers of the 20th century. He was
a musician, actor, dancer, and comedian,
starting in vaudeville and moving onto
Broadway, radio, and television. He turned
down the role for the lead in The Jazz Singer,
but his role in the 1930 film,
Whoopee, made him his star. He was a
regular on TV and radio throughout the
30s 40s and 50s. He also co-wrote the
tune "Merrily We Roll Along," the theme for
the Warner Brothers Merrie Melodies Cartoons.
[music]
Further in the mausoleum, on the left, is
the large black tomb of Jack Benny,
one of Hollywood's most legendary comedians.
He could elicit laughter from a mere
sideways glance alone - he was that good. A staple on stage radio and television
through the first half of the 20th
century, Jack Benny is widely considered
one of America's greatest entertainers.
His miserly persona, poor violin playing,
and perpetual age of 39 were just a few
of the running gags that made his
character so beloved to audiences. After
more than 15 years on the radio, the Jack
Benny Program ran on television from
1950 to 1965, and set the standard for
television comedy for years to come.
"Now, this is the ordinary inexpensive
violin that I use just on my television
shows. And this is the $30,000
Stradivarius that I use in my concerts.
And I want to show you why this is worth
every dollar that I paid for it.
Now first listen to this cheap one, this
is a cheap one just listen to it.
Now, here is my Stradivarius. I want you
to listen to the difference.
See, there's no substitute for quality."
Jack is entombed with his wife Mary who
starred alongside him on his radio and
television programs.
Down the hall and on
the first right,
on the far wall, is the niece of Allan Sherman.
He was a comedy writer and song
parodist best remembered for his hit
single, "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh."
[music]
He also voiced The Cat in the Hat in a 70s cartoon.
Back the way we came we head up to the second level.
On the wall just opposite the stairs, above
eye-level, is the crypt of Jeff Chandler.
He was one of Universal's most popular
actors during the 50s scene in action in
western films like Broken Arrow. His role
as Cochise earned him an Academy Award
nomination. He was also a talented singer,
releasing several albums in his career.
He died at just 42 after complications
from back surgery.
Back downstairs and
outside we followed the wall on the
right and find the crypt of Max Factor
Sr.  He was the founder of the
cosmetics company,
Max Factor. He was instrumental in
developing the modern cosmetics industry
and even popularized the use of the term
'makeup' as a noun. He headed to Los
Angeles when he saw an opportunity to
provide wigs and cosmetics to the
budding film industry. By the 19-teens
Max Factor had become the ultimate
authority in cosmetics for film making.
During those early years he personally
applied his cosmetics to the biggest
names in Hollywood, including Mary
Pickford, Clara Bow, Gloria Swanson, Jean
Harlow, Bette Davis, and more, always able
to make up each actor to be shown in the
best possible light on screen. After his
death he was entombed at Hollywood
Forever, but when that cemetery fell into
disrepair, his remains were moved here.
His son Max Factor Jr. carried on the family business and is entombed two spaces away.
Further along this wall, below eye level,
is Dinah Shore. She was an actress and
one of the most prominent female
vocalists of the big-band era. Among her
many popular recordings is the holiday
classic, "Baby It's Cold Outside."
[music]
Later in her career she became a television personality,
hosting her own variety shows, The Dinah
Shore Show in the 60s, and Dinah! in the
70s. After her death in 1994 a portion of
her cremated remains were entombed here,
another portion at Forest Lawn in
Cathedral City,
and the remainder rest with relatives.
Just past the door on
this same wall is the crypt of Eydie Gorme.
She was a popular big band
singer in the 50s and 60s with hits like
"Blame it on the Bossa Nova."
[music]
She often sang duet with her husband
Steve Lawrence, and also successfully
crossed over into the Latin music market
with a series of albums in Spanish.
She earned several awards in her career
including a Grammy and an Emmy.
On the lawn just behind us is the grave of
Lorne Greene. He was an actor, best
remembered for his long-running role as
Ben Cartwright
on TVs Bonanza, a role which earned him a
Golden Globe nomination.
[music]
He also starred as Commander Adama on the original Battlestar Galactica.
A few spaces right
is Sheldon Leonard. He produced many of
the popular television shows in the 60s,
including the Dick Van Dyke Show,
The Andy Griffith Show, and Make Room for Daddy, which earned him two Emmys.
Earlier in his career he could be seen in front of the camera, playing tough guys in
films like Guys and Dolls. His name
served as the namesake for the
characters Sheldon and Leonard on the
Big Bang Theory.
Heading around to the garden north, just
past the bridge, on the right we find
Leonard Nimoy. He is most famous for his
portrayal of Spock on the original Star Trek
TV series and subsequent Star Trek
films. Mr. Spock was named by TV Guide as
one of the 50 greatest TV characters, and
Nimoy's portrayal earned him three Emmy
Award nominations.
"She really liked those ears?"
"Captain, the Horta is a remarkably
intelligent and sensitive creature, with
impeccable taste."
"Because she approved of you."
"Really kept in my modesty -"
"Does not bear close examination, Mr. Spock.
I suspect you're becoming more and more
human all the time."
"Captain, I see no reason to stand here
and be insulted."
Nimoy devised the Vulcan salute, which
was inspired by a Jewish blessing
gesture, seen here on his marker.
Famous for the catchphrase "live long and prosper,"
Leonard Nimoy did just that,
living to the age of 83.
In 2016 a
documentary was made about the life of
Nimoy, directed by his son Adam.
Continuing down the sidewalk, on the lawn
to the left, we find the grave of
Theodore Bikel. He was a musician and
actor of both stage and screen.
He originated the role of Captain Von Trapp
in the original Broadway production of
The Sound of Music,
a role which earned him the Tony nomination.
In fact the song "Edelweiss" was written
specifically for Bikel to sing and perform.
[music]
He also played Tevye in the Fiddler on
the Roof in over 2,000 performances, more
than just about any other actor except
Topol. On-screen he can be seen in films
like My Fair Lady, The African Queen, and
The Defiant Ones, which earned him an
Oscar nomination. He also had many guest
appearances on TV shows like,
All in the Family, and The Twilight Zone.
Further along this sidewalk is the grand
monument to Hollywood producer Jerry
Weintraub. He began his career as a
manager and concert promoter for
performers like John Denver, Frank
Sinatra, Bob Dylan, and more. He went on to become a producer for film and
television.
Some of his notable productions include
Oh, God!, The Karate Kid, and the Ocean's
11 films. More recently he produced
the HBO series, Westworld. He won three
Emmys in his career.
Finally we head
around to the north and back inside the
mausoleum. Just inside this entrance is
the tomb of Aaron Spelling. He was one of
the most prolific TV producers in
Hollywood history, having produced a
number of successful and iconic
television shows, including Melrose Place,
7th Heaven, Charlie's Angels, Charmed,
and Beverly Hills, 90210, which featured
his daughter Tori.
[music]
And that concludes our tour! What are
some of your favorite memories of the
stars we visited today? Share them in the
comments below, and be sure to like, share,
and subscribe for more famous grave
tours.
Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the
next one!
I'm just sitting here editing the next
Hillside video and I had a thought...
why don't you guys choose the next
Cemetery that we visit? We've hit a lot
of the big ones here in LA but there's
still a lot more to see. So let's do this...
I'll create a poll and post it on my
Patreon page. Head over there and cast
your vote for the cemetery you'd like to
see next. The cemetery with the most
votes will be our next tour.
And Halloween's just over a week away so
don't forget to get your copy of my book,
Zombie Junior, while it's still on sale.
Hope you all have a wonderfully spooky
Halloween, and I can't wait to see
where we're headed next.